BiRe-ID: Binary Neural Network for Efficient Person Re-ID
Sheng Xu, Chang Liu, Baochang Zhang, Jinhu Lü, Guodong Guo, David Doermann
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications
08 February 2022
Person re-identification (Re-ID) has been promoted by the significant success of convolutional neural networks (CNNs). However, the application of such CNN-based Re-ID methods depends on the tremendous consumption of computation and memory resources, which affects its development on resource-limited devices such as next generation AI chips. As a result, CNN binarization has attracted increasing attention, which leads to binary neural networks (BNNs). In this article, we propose a new BNN-based framework for efficient person Re-ID (BiRe-ID). In this work, we discover that the significant performance drop of binarized models for Re-ID task is caused by the degraded representation capacity of kernels and features. To address the issues, we propose the kernel and feature refinement based on generative adversarial learning (KR-GAL and FR-GAL) to enhance the representation capacity of BNNs. We first introduce an adversarial attention mechanism to refine the binarized kernels based on their real-valued counterparts. Specifically, we introduce a scale factor to restore the scale of 1-bit convolution. And we employ an effective generative adversarial learning method to train the attention-aware scale factor. Furthermore, we introduce a self-supervised generative adversarial network to refine the low-level features using the corresponding high-level semantic information. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our BiRe-ID can be effectively implemented on various mainstream backbones for the Re-ID task. In terms of the performance, our BiRe-ID surpasses existing binarization methods by significant margins, at the level even comparable with the real-valued counterparts. For example, on Market-1501, BiRe-ID achieves 64.0% mAP on ResNet-18 backbone, with an impressive 12.51× speedup in theory and 11.75× storage saving. In particular, the KR-GAL and FR-GAL methods show strong generalization on multiple tasks such as Re-ID, image classification, object detection, and 3D point cloud processing.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3473340
