A Counterfactual Modeling Framework for Churn Prediction
Guozhen Zhang, Jinwei Zeng, Zhengyue Zhao, Depeng Jin, Yong Li
WSDM '22: Proceedings of the Fifteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining
15 February 2022
Accurate churn prediction for retaining users is keenly important for online services because it determines their survival and prosperity. Recent research has specified social influence to be one of the most important reasons for user churn, and thereby many works start to model its effects on user churn to improve the prediction performance. However, existing works only use the data's correlational information while neglecting the problem's causal nature. Specifically, the fact that a user's churn is correlated with some social factors does not mean he/she is actually influenced by his/her friends, which results in inaccurate and unexplainable predictions of the existing methods. To bridge this gap, we develop a counterfactual modeling framework for churn prediction, which can effectively capture the causal information of social influence for accurate and explainable churn predictions. Specifically, we first propose a backbone framework that uses two separate embeddings to model users' endogenous churn intentions and the exogenous social influence. Then, we propose a counterfactual data augmentation module to introduce the causal information to the model by providing partially labeled counterfactual data. Finally, we design a three-headed counterfactual prediction framework to guide the model to learn causal information to facilitate churn prediction. Extensive experiments on two large-scale datasets with different types of social relations show our model's superior prediction performance compared with the state-of-the-art baselines. We further conduct an in-depth analysis of the prediction results demonstrating our proposed method's ability to capture causal information of social influence and give explainable churn predictions, which provide insights into designing better user retention strategies.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3488560.3498468
