Recursive Sparse Representation for Identifying Multiple Concurrent Occupants Using Floor Vibration Sensing
Jonathon Fagert, Mostafa Mirshekari, Pei Zhang, Hae Young Noh
Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies
29 March 2022
In this paper, we present a multiple concurrent occupant identification approach through footstep-induced floor vibration sensing. Identification of human occupants is useful in a variety of indoor smart structure scenarios, with applications in building security, space allocation, and healthcare. Existing approaches leverage sensing modalities such as vision, acoustic, RF, and wearables, but are limited due to deployment constraints such as line-of-sight requirements, sensitivity to noise, dense sensor deployment, and requiring each walker to wear/carry a device. To overcome these restrictions, we use footstep-induced structural vibration sensing. Footstep-induced signals contain information about the occupants' unique gait characteristics, and propagate through the structural medium, which enables sparse and passive identification of indoor occupants. The primary research challenge is that multiple-person footstep-induced vibration responses are a mixture of structurally-codependent overlapping individual responses with unknown timing, spectral content, and mixing ratios. As such, it is difficult to determine which part of the signal corresponds to each occupant. We overcome this challenge through a recursive sparse representation approach based on cosine distance that identifies each occupant in a footstep event in the order that their signals are generated, reconstructs their portion of the signal, and removes it from the mixed response. By leveraging sparse representation, our approach can simultaneously identify and separate mixed/overlapping responses, and the use of the cosine distance error function reduces the influence of structural codependency on the multiple walkers' signals. In this way, we isolate and identify each of the multiple occupants' footstep responses. We evaluate our approach by conducting real-world walking experiments with three concurrent walkers and achieve an average F1 score for identifying all persons of 0.89 (1.3x baseline improvement), and with a 10-person "hybrid" dataset (simulated combination of single-walker real-world data), we identify 2, 3, and 4 concurrent walkers with a trace-level accuracy of 100%, 93%, and 73%, respectively, and observe as much as a 2.9x error reduction over a naive baseline approach.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3517229
