Fine-grained Human Analysis under Occlusions and Perspective Constraints in Multimedia Surveillance
Rita Cucchiara, Matteo Fabbri
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications
25 January 2022
Human detection in the wild is a research topic of paramount importance in computer vision, and it is the starting step for designing intelligent systems oriented to human interaction that work in complete autonomy. To achieve this goal, computer vision and machine learning should aim at superhuman capabilities. In this work, we address the problem of fine-grained human analysis under occlusions and perspective constraints. More specifically, we discuss some issues and some possible solutions to effectively detect people using pose estimation methods and to detect humans under occlusions both in the two-dimensional (2D) image plane and in the 3D space exploiting single monocular cameras. Dealing with occlusion can be done at the joint level or pixel level: We discuss two different solutions, the former based on a supervised neural network architecture for detecting occluded joints and the latter based on a semi-supervised specialized GAN that exploits both appearance and human shape attributes to determine the missing parts of the visible shape. To deal with perspective constraints, we further discuss a neural approach based on a double architecture that learns to create an optimal neural representation, which is useful to reconstruct the 3D position of human keypoints starting with simple RGB images. All these approaches have a critical point in common: the need for large annotated datasets. To have large, fair, consistent, transparent, and ethical datasets, we propose the adoption of synthetic datasets as, for example, JTA and MOTSynth. In this article, we discuss the pros and cons of using synthetic datasets while tackling several human-centered AI issues with respect to European GDPR rules for privacy. We further explore and discuss an application in the field of risk assessment by space occupancy estimation during the COVID-19 pandemic called Inter-Homines.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3476839
