Efficient and Effective Similar Subtrajectory Search: A Spatial-aware Comprehension Approach
Liwei Deng, Hao Sun, Rui Sun, Yan Zhao, Han Su
ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology
13 April 2022
Although many applications take subtrajectories as basic units for analysis, there is little research on the similar subtrajectory search problem aiming to return a portion of a trajectory (i.e., subtrajectory), which is the most similar to a query trajectory. We find that in some special cases, when a grid-based metric is used, this problem can be formulated as a reading comprehension problem, which has been studied extensively in the field of natural language processing (NLP). By this formulation, we can obtain faster models with better performance than existing methods. However, due to the difference between natural language and trajectory (e.g., spatial relationship), it is impossible to directly apply NLP models to this problem. Therefore, we propose a Similar Subtrajectory Search with a Graph Neural Networks framework. This framework contains four modules including a spatial-aware grid embedding module, a trajectory embedding module, a query-context trajectory fusion module, and a span prediction module. Specifically, in the spatial-aware grid embedding module, the spatial-based grid adjacency is constructed and delivered to the graph neural network to learn spatial-aware grid embedding. The trajectory embedding module aims to model the sequential information of trajectories. The purpose of the query-context trajectory fusion module is to fuse the information of the query trajectory to each grid of the context trajectories. Finally, the span prediction module aims to predict the start and the end of a subtrajectory for the context trajectory, which is the most similar to the query trajectory. We conduct comprehensive experiments on two real world datasets, where the proposed framework outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines consistently and significantly.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3456723
