Linguistic Resources for Bhojpuri, Magahi, and Maithili: Statistics about Them, Their Similarity Estimates, and Baselines for Three Applications
Rajesh Kumar Mundotiya, Manish Kumar Singh, Rahul Kapur, Swasti Mishra, Anil Kumar Singh
ACM Transactions on Asian and Low-Resource Language Information Processing
13 September 2021
Corpus preparation for low-resource languages and for development of human language technology to analyze or computationally process them is a laborious task, primarily due to the unavailability of expert linguists who are native speakers of these languages and also due to the time and resources required. Bhojpuri, Magahi, and Maithili, languages of the Purvanchal region of India (in the north-eastern parts), are low-resource languages belonging to the Indo-Aryan (or Indic) family. They are closely related to Hindi, which is a relatively high-resource language, which is why we compare them with Hindi. We collected corpora for these three languages from various sources and cleaned them to the extent possible, without changing the data in them. The text belongs to different domains and genres. We calculated some basic statistical measures for these corpora at character, word, syllable, and morpheme levels. These corpora were also annotated with parts-of-speech (POS) and chunk tags. The basic statistical measures were both absolute and relative and were expected to indicate linguistic properties, such as morphological, lexical, phonological, and syntactic complexities (or richness). The results were compared with a standard Hindi corpus. For most of the measures, we tried to match the corpus size across the languages to avoid the effect of corpus size, but in some cases it turned out that using the full corpus was better, even if sizes were very different. Although the results are not very clear, we tried to draw some conclusions about the languages and the corpora. For POS tagging and chunking, the BIS tagset was used to manually annotate the data. The POS-tagged data sizes are 16,067, 14,669, and 12,310 sentences, respectively, for Bhojpuri, Magahi, and Maithili. The sizes for chunking are 9,695 and 1,954 sentences for Bhojpuri and Maithili, respectively. The inter-annotator agreement for these annotations, using Cohen’s Kappa, was 0.92, 0.64, and 0.74, respectively, for the three languages. These (annotated) corpora have been used for developing preliminary automated tools, which include POS tagger, Chunker, and Language Identifier. We have also developed the Bilingual dictionary (Purvanchal languages to Hindi) and a Synset (that can be integrated later in the Indo-WordNet) as additional resources. The main contribution of the work is the creation of basic resources for facilitating further language processing research for these languages, providing some quantitative measures about them and their similarities among themselves and with Hindi. For similarities, we use a somewhat novel measure of language similarity based on an n-gram-based language identification algorithm. An additional contribution is providing baselines for three basic NLP applications (POS tagging, chunking, and language identification) for these closely related languages.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3458250
