Binary Representation via Jointly Personalized Sparse Hashing
Xiaoqin Wang, Chen Chen, Rushi Lan, Licheng Liu, Zhenbing Liu, Huiyu Zhou, Xiaonan Luo
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications
31 October 2022
Unsupervised hashing has attracted much attention for binary representation learning due to the requirement of economical storage and efficiency of binary codes. It aims to encode high-dimensional features in the Hamming space with similarity preservation between instances. However, most existing methods learn hash functions in manifold-based approaches. Those methods capture the local geometric structures (i.e., pairwise relationships) of data, and lack satisfactory performance in dealing with real-world scenarios that produce similar features (e.g., color and shape) with different semantic information. To address this challenge, in this work, we propose an effective unsupervised method, namely, Jointly Personalized Sparse Hashing (JPSH), for binary representation learning. To be specific, first, we propose a novel personalized hashing module, i.e., Personalized Sparse Hashing (PSH). Different personalized subspaces are constructed to reflect category-specific attributes for different clusters, adaptively mapping instances within the same cluster to the same Hamming space. In addition, we deploy sparse constraints for different personalized subspaces to select important features. We also collect the strengths of the other clusters to build the PSH module with avoiding over-fitting. Then, to simultaneously preserve semantic and pairwise similarities in our proposed JPSH, we incorporate the proposed PSH and manifold-based hash learning into the seamless formulation. As such, JPSH not only distinguishes the instances from different clusters but also preserves local neighborhood structures within the cluster. Finally, an alternating optimization algorithm is adopted to iteratively capture analytical solutions of the JPSH model. We apply the proposed representation learning algorithm JPSH to the similarity search task. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets verify that the proposed JPSH outperforms several state-of-the-art unsupervised hashing algorithms.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3558769
