A Unified Target-Oriented Sequence-to-Sequence Model for Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction
Zifeng Cheng, Zhiwei Jiang, Yafeng Yin, Na Li, Qing Gu
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language Processing
11 August 2021
Emotion-cause pair extraction is a recently proposed task that aims at extracting all potential clause-level pairs of emotion and cause in text. To solve this task, researchers first proposed a two-step pipeline method. This method extracts the emotions and causes individually in the first step, then pairs the extracted emotions and causes and filters the invalid emotion-cause pairs in the second step. Due to that the two-step method has the error accumulation problem and is hard to be optimized jointly, several one-step end-to-end models have been proposed. These models share a similar underlying idea, that is, reframing the emotion-cause pair extraction task as a classification problem of candidate clause pairs. Unlike these models, in this paper, we reframe the emotion-cause pair extraction task as a unified sequence labeling problem, which allows to extract emotion-cause pairs through one pass of sequence labeling. This is realized by designing a special set of unified labels. In the unified label, we design a content part for emotion/cause identification and a pairing part for clause pairing. Then the emotion-cause pairs can be implicitly derived from the unified labels. To address this unified sequence labeling problem, we propose a unified target-oriented sequence-to-sequence model, which comprehensively utilizes the information of target clause, global context, and former decoded label, to perform end-to-end unified sequence labeling. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of both our proposed unified sequence labeling scheme and unified target-oriented sequence-to-sequence model. All the code and data of this work can be obtained at <uri>https://github.com/zifengcheng/UTOS</uri>.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1109/TASLP.2021.3102194
