TRG-DAtt: The Target Relational Graph and Double Attention Network Based Sentiment Analysis and Prediction for Supporting Decision Making
Fan Chen, Jiaoxiong Xia, Honghao Gao, Huahu Xu, Wei Wei
ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems
28 October 2021
The management of public opinion and the use of big data monitoring to accurately judge and verify all kinds of information are valuable aspects in the enterprise management decision-making process. The sentiment analysis of reviews is a key decision-making tool for e-commerce development. Most existing review sentiment analysis methods involve sequential modeling but do not focus on the semantic relationships. However, Chinese semantics are different from English semantics in terms of the sentence structure. Irrelevant contextual words may be incorrectly identified as cues for sentiment prediction. The influence of the target words in reviews must be considered. Thus, this paper proposes the TRG-DAtt model for sentiment analysis based on target relational graph (TRG) and double attention network (DAtt) to analyze the emotional information to support decision making. First, dependency tree-based TRG is introduced to independently and fully mine the semantic relationships. We redefine and constrain the dependency and use it as the edges to connect the target and context words. Second, we design dependency graph attention network (DGAT) and interactive attention network (IAT) to form the DAtt and obtain the emotional features of the target words and reviews. DGAT models the dependency of the TRG by aggregating the semantic information. Next, the target emotional enhancement features obtained by the DGAT are input to the IAT. The influence of each target word on the review can be obtained through the interaction. Finally, the target emotional enhancement features are weighted by the impact factor to generate the review's emotional features. In this study, extensive experiments were conducted on the car and Meituan review data sets, which contain consumer reviews on cars and stores, respectively. The results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms the existing models.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3462442
