TWIST-GAN: Towards Wavelet Transform and Transferred GAN for Spatio-Temporal Single Image Super Resolution
Fayaz Ali Dharejo, Farah Deeba, Yuanchun Zhou, Bhagwan Das, Munsif Ali Jatoi, Muhammad Zawish, Yi Du, Xuezhi Wang
ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology
20 December 2021
Single Image Super-resolution (SISR) produces high-resolution images with fine spatial resolutions from a remotely sensed image with low spatial resolution. Recently, deep learning and generative adversarial networks (GANs) have made breakthroughs for the challenging task of single image super-resolution (SISR) . However, the generated image still suffers from undesirable artifacts such as the absence of texture-feature representation and high-frequency information. We propose a frequency domain-based spatio-temporal remote sensing single image super-resolution technique to reconstruct the HR image combined with generative adversarial networks (GANs) on various frequency bands (TWIST-GAN). We have introduced a new method incorporating Wavelet Transform (WT) characteristics and transferred generative adversarial network. The LR image has been split into various frequency bands by using the WT, whereas the transfer generative adversarial network predicts high-frequency components via a proposed architecture. Finally, the inverse transfer of wavelets produces a reconstructed image with super-resolution. The model is first trained on an external DIV2 K dataset and validated with the UC Merced Landsat remote sensing dataset and Set14 with each image size of 256 × 256. Following that, transferred GANs are used to process spatio-temporal remote sensing images in order to minimize computation cost differences and improve texture information. The findings are compared qualitatively and qualitatively with the current state-of-art approaches. In addition, we saved about 43% of the GPU memory during training and accelerated the execution of our simplified version by eliminating batch normalization layers.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3456726
