A Novel Multi-Sample Generation Method for Adversarial Attacks
Mingxing Duan, Kenli Li, Jiayan Deng, Bin Xiao, Qi Tian
ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications
04 March 2022
Deep learning models are widely used in daily life, which bring great convenience to our lives, but they are vulnerable to attacks. How to build an attack system with strong generalization ability to test the robustness of deep learning systems is a hot issue in current research, among which the research on black-box attacks is extremely challenging. Most current research on black-box attacks assumes that the input dataset is known. However, in fact, it is difficult for us to obtain detailed information for those datasets. In order to solve the above challenges, we propose a multi-sample generation model for black-box model attacks, called MsGM. MsGM is mainly composed of three parts: multi-sample generation, substitute model training, and adversarial sample generation and attack. Firstly, we design a multi-task generation model to learn the distribution of the original dataset. The model first converts an arbitrary signal of a certain distribution into the shared features of the original dataset through deconvolution operations, and then according to different input conditions, multiple identical sub-networks generate the corresponding targeted samples. Secondly, the generated sample features achieve different outputs through querying the black-box model and training the substitute model, which are used to construct different loss functions to optimize and update the generator and substitute model. Finally, some common white-box attack methods are used to attack the substitute model to generate corresponding adversarial samples, which are utilized to attack the black-box model. We conducted a large number of experiments on the MNIST and CIFAR-10 datasets. The experimental results show that under the same settings and attack algorithms, MsGM achieves better performance than the based models.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3506852
