Pre-Trained Convolutional Neural Networks for Breast Cancer Detection Using Ultrasound Images
Mehedi Masud, M. Shamim Hossain, Hesham Alhumyani, Sultan S. Alshamrani, Omar Cheikhrouhou, Saleh Ibrahim, Ghulam Muhammad, Amr E. Eldin Rashed, B. B. Gupta
ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
16 July 2021
Volunteer computing based data processing is a new trend in healthcare applications. Researchers are now leveraging volunteer computing power to train deep learning networks consisting of billions of parameters. Breast cancer is the second most common cause of death in women among cancers. The early detection of cancer may diminish the death risk of patients. Since the diagnosis of breast cancer manually takes lengthy time and there is a scarcity of detection systems, development of an automatic diagnosis system is needed for early detection of cancer. Machine learning models are now widely used for cancer detection and prediction research for improving the successive therapy of patients. Considering this need, this study implements pre-trained convolutional neural network based models for detecting breast cancer using ultrasound images. In particular, we tuned the pre-trained models for extracting key features from ultrasound images and included a classifier on the top layer. We measured accuracy of seven popular state-of-the-art pre-trained models using different optimizers and hyper-parameters through fivefold cross validation. Moreover, we consider Grad-CAM and occlusion mapping techniques to examine how well the models extract key features from the ultrasound images to detect cancers. We observe that after fine tuning, DenseNet201 and ResNet50 show 100% accuracy with Adam and RMSprop optimizers. VGG16 shows 100% accuracy using the Stochastic Gradient Descent optimizer. We also develop a custom convolutional neural network model with a smaller number of layers compared to large layers in the pre-trained models. The model also shows 100% accuracy using the Adam optimizer in classifying healthy and breast cancer patients. It is our belief that the model will assist healthcare experts with improved and faster patient screening and pave a way to further breast cancer research.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3418355
