NTP-Miner: Nonoverlapping Three-Way Sequential Pattern Mining
Youxi Wu, Lanfang Luo, Yan Li, Lei Guo, Philippe Fournier-Viger, Xingquan Zhu, Xindong Wu
ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data
22 October 2021
Nonoverlapping sequential pattern mining is an important type of sequential pattern mining (SPM) with gap constraints, which not only can reveal interesting patterns to users but also can effectively reduce the search space using the Apriori (anti-monotonicity) property. However, the existing algorithms do not focus on attributes of interest to users, meaning that existing methods may discover many frequent patterns that are redundant. To solve this problem, this article proposes a task called nonoverlapping three-way sequential pattern (NTP) mining, where attributes are categorized according to three levels of interest: strong, medium, and weak interest. NTP mining can effectively avoid mining redundant patterns since the NTPs are composed of strong and medium interest items. Moreover, NTPs can avoid serious deviations (the occurrence is significantly different from its pattern) since gap constraints cannot match with strong interest patterns. To mine NTPs, an effective algorithm is put forward, called NTP-Miner, which applies two main steps: support (frequency occurrence) calculation and candidate pattern generation. To calculate the support of an NTP, depth-first and backtracking strategies are adopted, which do not require creating a whole Nettree structure, meaning that many redundant nodes and parent–child relationships do not need to be created. Hence, time and space efficiency is improved. To generate candidate patterns while reducing their number, NTP-Miner employs a pattern join strategy and only mines patterns of strong and medium interest. Experimental results on stock market and protein datasets show that NTP-Miner not only is more efficient than other competitive approaches but can also help users find more valuable patterns. More importantly, NTP mining has achieved better performance than other competitive methods in clustering tasks. Algorithms and data are available at: https://github.com/wuc567/Pattern-Mining/tree/master/NTP-Miner .
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3480245
