eFraudCom: An E-commerce Fraud Detection System via Competitive Graph Neural Networks
Ge Zhang, Zhao Li, Jiaming Huang, Jia Wu, Chuan Zhou, Jian Yang, Jianliang Gao
ACM Transactions on Information Systems
07 March 2022
With the development of e-commerce, fraud behaviors have been becoming one of the biggest threats to the e-commerce business. Fraud behaviors seriously damage the ranking system of e-commerce platforms and adversely influence the shopping experience of users. It is of great practical value to detect fraud behaviors on e-commerce platforms. However, the task is non-trivial, since the adversarial action taken by fraudsters. Existing fraud detection systems used in the e-commerce industry easily suffer from performance decay and can not adapt to the upgrade of fraud patterns, as they take already known fraud behaviors as supervision information to detect other suspicious behaviors. In this article, we propose a competitive graph neural networks (CGNN)-based fraud detection system (eFraudCom) to detect fraud behaviors at one of the largest e-commerce platforms, “Taobao” 1 . In the eFraudCom system, (1) the competitive graph neural networks (CGNN) as the core part of eFraudCom can classify behaviors of users directly by modeling the distributions of normal and fraud behaviors separately; (2) some normal behaviors will be utilized as weak supervision information to guide the CGNN to build the profile for normal behaviors that are more stable than fraud behaviors. The algorithm dependency on fraud behaviors will be eliminated, which enables eFraudCom to detect fraud behaviors in presence of the new fraud patterns; (3) the mutual information regularization term can maximize the separability between normal and fraud behaviors to further improve CGNN. eFraudCom is implemented into a prototype system and the performance of the system is evaluated by extensive experiments. The experiments on two Taobao and two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed deep framework CGNN is superior to other baselines in detecting fraud behaviors. A case study on Taobao datasets verifies that CGNN is still robust when the fraud patterns have been upgraded.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3474379
