Design and Implementation of BCI-based Intelligent Upper Limb Rehabilitation Robot System
Tae-Yeun Kim, Sung-Hwan Kim, Hoon Ko
ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
09 June 2021
The present study aimed to use the proposed system to measure and analyze brain waves of users to allow intelligent upper limb rehabilitation and to optimize the system using a genetic algorithm. The study used EPOC Neuroheadset for Emotiv with EEG electrodes attached as a non-invasive method for measuring brain waves. The brain waves were measured according to the EEG 10-20 standard electrode layout, which allows measurement of signals from each spot where electrodes are attached based on EEG characteristics. The measured data were added in a database. In the intelligent neuro-fuzzy model, wave transform was used for extracting brain wave characteristics according to user intentions and to eliminate noise from the signals in an effort to increase reliability. Moreover, to construct the option rules of the neuro-fuzzy system, FCM technique and optimal cluster evaluation method were used. Furthermore, the asymmetric Gaussian membership function was used to improve performance, whereas SD and WF divided into left and right sides were used to express the chromosomes. Optimal EEG electrode locations were found, and comparative analysis was performed on the differences based on membership function, number of clusters, and number of learning generations, learning algorithm, and wavelet settings. The performance evaluation results showed that the optimal EEG electrode locations were F7, F8, FC5, and FC6, whereas the accuracy of learning and test data of user-intention recognition was found to be 94.2% and 92.3%, respectively, which suggests that the proposed system can be used to recognize user intention for specific behavior. The system proposed in the present study can allow continued rehabilitation exercise in everyday living according to user intentions, which is expected to help improve the user's willingness to participate in rehabilitation and his or her quality of life.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3392115
