A Survey on Requirements of Future Intelligent Networks: Solutions and Future Research Directions
Arif Husen, Muhammad Hasanain Chaudary, Farooq Ahmad
ACM Computing Surveys
21 November 2022
The context of this study examines the requirements of Future Intelligent Networks (FIN), solutions, and current research directions through a survey technique. The background of this study is hinged on the applications of Machine Learning (ML) in the networking field. Through careful analysis of literature and real-world reports, we noted that ML has significantly expedited decision-making processes, enhanced intelligent automation, and helped resolve complex problems economically in different fields of life. Various researchers have also envisioned future networks incorporating intelligent functions and operations with ML. Several efforts have been made to automate individual functions and operations in the networking domain; however, most of the existing ML models proposed in the literature lack several vital requirements. Hence, this study aims to present a comprehensive summary of the requirements of FIN and propose a taxonomy of different network functionalities that needs to be equipped with ML techniques. The core objectives of this study are to provide a taxonomy of requirements envisioned for end-to-end FIN, relevant ML techniques, and their analysis to find research gaps, open issues, and future research directions. The real benefit of ML applications in any domain can only be ensured if intelligent capabilities cover all of its components. We observed that future generations of networks are heterogeneous, multi-vendor, and multidimensional, and ML can provide optimal results only if intelligent capabilities are used on a holistic scale. Realizing intelligence on a holistic scale is only possible if the ML algorithms can solve heterogeneous problems in a multi-vendor and multidimensional environment. ML models must be reliable and efficient, support, and possess the capability to learn and share the knowledge across the network layers and administrative domains to solve issues. First, this study ascertains the requirements of the FIN and proposes their taxonomy through reviews on envisioned ideas by various researchers and articles gathered from reputed conferences and standard developing organizations using keyword queries. Second, we have reviewed existing studies on ML applications focusing on coverage, heterogeneity, distributed architecture, and cross-domain knowledge learning and sharing. Our study observed that in the past, ML applications were focused mainly on an individual/isolated level only, and aspects of global and deep holistic learning with cross-layer/cross-domain knowledge sharing with agile ML operations are not explored at large. We recommend that the issues mentioned previously be addressed with improved ML architecture and agile operations and propose an ML pipeline based architecture for FIN. The significant contribution of this study is the impetus for researchers to seek ML models suitable for a modular, distributed, multi-domain, and multi-layer environment and provide decision making on a global or holistic rather than an individual function level.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3524106
