Meta-Information Fusion of Hierarchical Semantics Dependency and Graph Structure for Structured Text Classification
Shaokang Wang, Li Pan, Yu Wu
ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data
20 February 2023
Structured text with plentiful hierarchical structure information is an important part in real-world complex texts. Structured text classification is attracting more attention in natural language processing due to the increasing complexity of application scenarios. Most existing methods treat structured text from a local hierarchy perspective, focusing on the semantics dependency and the graph structure of the structured text independently. However, structured text has global hierarchical structures with sophisticated dependency when compared to unstructured text. According to the variety of structured texts, it is not appropriate to use the existing methods directly. The function of distinction information within semantics dependency and graph structure for structured text, referred to as meta-information, should be stated more precisely. In this article, we propose HGMETA, a novel meta-information embedding frame network for structured text classification, to obtain the fusion embedding of hierarchical semantics dependency and graph structure in a structured text, and to distill the meta-information from fusion characteristics. To integrate the global hierarchical features with fused structured text information, we design a hierarchical LDA module and a structured text embedding module. Specially, we employ a multi-hop message passing mechanism to explicitly incorporate complex dependency into a meta-graph. The meta-information is constructed from meta-graph via neighborhood-based propagation to distill redundant information. Furthermore, using an attention-based network, we investigate the complementarity of semantics dependency and graph structure based on global hierarchical characteristics and meta-information. Finally, the fusion embedding and the meta-information can be straightforwardly incorporated for structured text classification. Experiments conducted on three real-world datasets show the effectiveness of meta-information and demonstrate the superiority of our method.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3537971
